# EAGLE CAM Processor mkcam

A bash shell script that generates CAM files from Eagle-Designs.
The script takes as arguments the board file and the number of signal layers.
It generates two kinds of CAD/CAM data sets: One for the designer and another 
for the manufacturing and assembly folks. 
Remember: Never give design files away to the fab ! 
The fab gets plot and drill data, BOM, ... the CAM files.

## general steps before releasing a PCB design

- global attributes in sch/brd
- update schematic and layout from all libraries (optional)
- check net class settings
- renumber sheets
- check assembly variants (if any)
- run statistics-schematic ulp to check for proper net names, prefixes, ...
- run ERC
- identify parts to be mounted or not to be mounted (attribute "BOM")
- mind accessories (cables, wires, screws, clamps, washers, ...)
- check orientation of connectors (pin 1, cable insertion, ...)
- export BOM (in csv format)

- check polygons (width, isolation, rank, bottlenecks, orphans, ...)
- check plated millings in inner layers
- ratsnet supply signals or ratsnet whole board
- check via drills, mounting holes, stop mask, fiducials vs. stop mask areas
- check stop mask fine of pitch components
- run DRC on signals
- run DRC on keepout
- inspect layer brd_placement notes (optional)
- check silk screen (text size, font, ratio)
- avoid silk screen on vias
- value placement in brd (text size, font, ratio)
- export netlist/partlist (pick & place) (optional, mkcam cares for that)
- check layer markers in ALL layers (TOP, BOT, L2, L15, ...)
- check fiducials (even positions)
- check t/bCopper layer objects (layers 53/54)
- draw measures
- delete uselsess layers
- update drill symbols (optional)
- display all layers -> run DRC (mind assembly variants, if any)
- make cam data with mkcam (see below)
- review CAM files
- ask for quoation at pcb-house (findings ?)
- release

## Installation

The "installer" just copies the script "mkcam" to $HOME/bin. This way the user is
free to modifiy "mkcam" as she whishes. The bin directory must be created
manually if not exising already. Make sure the $PATH environment variable is set properly.

```sh
sh install.sh
```

In order to have "mkcam" available for all users, modifiy the installer so that it copies mkcam
in /usr/local/bin for example. This would require root privileges of course.

## Prerequisites
Mkcam expects in the EAGLE project directory a subdirectory named "bom". 
A BOM file generated by Stock_Mangager should live there (see <https://github.com/Blunk-electronic/stock_manager>).

## Usage
Change into the EAGLE project:
```sh
cd eagle/projects/my_project
```

The board file should be there:
```sh
ls my_project.brd
```

If your board file contains four signal layers, launch mkcam this way:
```sh
mkcam my_project.brd 4
```

The outcome will be a subdirectory named CAD_CAM where the archives can be found.
